one of my patreon supporters said to me
something that's profound and brilliant
in its simplicity
she said tradition all tradition
ultimately is a form of peer pressure
that deceased generations are exercising
over the living our ancestors from the
past bully us into imitating their
stupidity through tradition we can
pretend all we want that the role of the
government is to preserve tradition
it isn't Quebec secular legislation
commonly known as bill 21 is being
challenged in court the bill passed over
a month ago it bans public employees
from wearing religious symbols and
requires all citizens to uncover their
faces when receiving government services
premier Francois Lego has put forward a
bill that bans public employees like
teachers and police officers from
wearing headscarves turbines and kippers
with bill 21 looming on the horizon it's
a weight on her mind what if my daughter
who's 8 years old right now wants to be
a teacher in the future and what if she
wants to wear a hijab like I did in high
school what's gonna happen will she be
told by her high school teachers oh
don't take this program and say Jeff
don't take this program in university
you can't be a teacher because you wear
a hijab that's not fair the bill 21 will
ban religious symbols on workers
including teachers police officers and
judges who would no longer be allowed
jewelry headgear and accessories worn as
a sign of faith it is actually quite
rare that someone asked me to speak on
religion or the politics of religion in
fact just a couple of days ago was
having a conversation online somebody
was asking if I'd ever made a video
about a particular topic in atheism I
had to point out you know my youtube
channel when I started my first YouTube
channel
the YouTube channel that pays my rent to
this day
I called it abolish F it was founded as
a channel with an anti religious mandate
and my perspective on atheism is formed
by the fact that I'm not an X Christian
at the time I created this YouTube
channel I was very much emotionally and
intellectually recovering from Buddhism
I was an X Buddhist and I wasn't merely
a member of the Buddhist phase in the
past I was also very much a scholar I
devoted many years my life's working
very hard to learning the scripture the
history and the politics of that
religion I was planning for my long term
career to really be an expert and an
academic in Buddhism and at many points
I considered taking on the full robes
and becoming a Buddhist monk presumably
for the rest of my life so I was I was
deeply deeply committed to tera vaada
Buddhism so when I do get asked these
kinds of questions the perspective I
have to offer is very different from
other atheist YouTube channels Leyte
becomes problematic when Quebec shifts
its attention away from dismantling an
institution with hegemonic control to
limiting the access and opportunities of
minorities who are already disadvantaged
and at the margins of society
unlike the Catholic clergy these
minorities don't have power influence or
control so there's no reason to adopt a
heavy-handed approach that makes it
difficult for them to see themselves as
equal and autonomous participants in
society the laws face wide opposition
with many saying it overwhelmingly
targets women who wear head scarves and
veils as always raised as a Canadian I
was always raised as a Quebec er my was
always raises a much Yeller my identity
happens to be Muslim I became a teacher
how more of an integrated job does the
does the no ministers I might wanna see
be second the proposed law suggests that
we're judging people by their outward
appearances in the 21st century it
implies that people who wear religious
clothing are incapable of acting and
partially in their jobs
I think the misconception
here arises from the difference between
propaganda about secularism propaganda
about lazy Tay propaganda about
separation attrition state and the
brutal reality of what it really means
what it always has meant historically
what its gonna mean in the future
you know I I'll be asked you I'm really
more interested in the gap between these
two here on YouTube I'm more interested
in how we cope with this as content
creators and as possibly activists for
atheism then I'm interested in how it's
gonna play out in the newspapers or in
the parliaments because you know it's an
old story nothing simply gonna change
it's completely false it's hollow
propaganda to suggest that the meaning
of Lacey Tay or the meaning of state
secularism is the equal encouragement of
all religions and all faiths in Canada
in the 21st century do we equally
encourage female genital mutilation and
male genital mutilation to use the the
common terms female circumcision and
males or precision but those are those
commonly tolerated yes no how about how
about the Hindu tradition of arranged
marriage with child brides is that
tolerated how about how about the theory
of evolution versus the theory of the
origin of the world set down in Judaism
Christianity Islam you guys may not know
but Buddhism has its own creation of the
world mythology doesn't see the compass
see are these things equally tolerated
occasionally no not at all
the reality is that we live in an era in
Canada in Western Europe not everywhere
in the world but in the countries I'm
addressing here we live in an era when
the modern secular bureaucratic
state requires people with modern
secular bureaucratic attitudes and if
you don't live up to that standard
you're rejected you're rejected as a
police officer you're rejected as a
schoolteacher you're rejected as a judge
you're rejected as a person of almost
any significant responsibility
whatsoever and you're only tolerated to
the extent to which your religion
happens to resemble the ideology of the
state okay so most Buddhists have a kind
of turning point in their development
where they realize this like most
Buddhists have a kind of early period
where they're kind of naive or June
about the religion and then they've
appeared where they get more get more
serious get more scholarly learn what
their religion really is and this is
true whether you're born into Buddhism
or whether you convert to it you know
you got to work your way through uh-huh
what you think about the religion and
then get to grips with the real history
in real scripture what you start to
realize when you're becoming more of a
serious Buddhist is that the positive
appraisal of the religion the
appreciation of the religion in modern
Asia modern Europe modern America is not
because of their religions strengths
it's because of the religions weaknesses
like Buddhism in the modern world is
seen as a good thing only to the extent
to which it resembles atheism Buddhism
is accepted and even promoted in the
modern world only to the extent to which
it's compatible with the theory of
evolution it's compatible with gay
rights and these are big advantages that
Buddhism has over Islam Judaism
Christianity but the thing is once you
become a serious Buddhist and you start
reading the scriptures you realize that
Buddhism actually does have its own
about the creation of the world it's
just that nobody today takes it
seriously
nobody insists that what was written in
this ancient scripture is more real more
important or more true than what people
now teach in geology let alone
evolutionary biology nobody takes it
that seriously the weakness of the
religion is its strength and I could go
on and on with other examples including
the social political attitudes that you
know modern Buddhists have that in many
ways mark out not the purity of their
religious tradition but it's greater
decay it's greater decomposition in the
modern era and by the same token the
forms of Christianity that are the most
tolerated or the most accepted by the
modern secular democratic state are of
necessity those that don't take the
scripture seriously those that are the
most diluted the most decayed the most
corrupt anyone who really practiced
Christianity the way it's written down
in the Bible would be in prison or be
exiled and asked to leave the country
something else Buddhism has in common
with Christianity and Islam slavery
nobody wants to talk about that look
guys you cannot serve both God and
Mammon it's a quote from the Bible you
cannot serve the laws of God and also
the laws of man you cannot represent a
modern secular democracy and at the same
time an ancient legal code an ancient
moral code such as the Koran or
it is inevitable in the present in the
future and several times it's come up
with equal inevitability in the past
that some modernity confronts tradition
that the ultimately coercive nature of
secularism that the ultimately
authoritarian nature of atheism is naked
ly exposed beneath this layer of
propaganda we paraded where we pretend
that the function of the modern
professional secular state is to treat
all religions equally to encourage all
religions to flourish equally and that's
why I say I'm really more interested in
where this discourse goes on YouTube and
in terms of activism then I am for how
it's gonna go in the courthouse and the
mainstream newspapers the same song and
dance is going to be acted out in the
formal sphere of the legislators again
and again and again where it's explained
to the public that all the absurdities
and evils of religion will be tolerated
to the greatest extent possible and that
sagacious wise old men will sit down in
the parliament or in the Senate and will
gravely consider the significance of
whether or not female genital mutilation
is to be tolerated whether or not male
circumcision is to be tolerated that on
each principle with all due seriousness
you know that it'll be considered on its
merits whether or not it will be
tolerated that there are religious
schools teaching children that the
theory of evolution is false or whether
the government will step in and force
those schools to teach that the theory
of evolution is is valid and what nobody
wants to admit naked lis is that we're
at the midpoint of a process whereby
inexorably that coercive role of the
state the coercive role of the secular
and atheist government is exerted
more and more suffocatingly over the
private religious there are no two ways
about it okay
the future of Canada is not going to be
the government eliminating the teaching
of evolution because they decide that
the Muslims were right it's not gonna
happen is it possible we can talk about
tolerance all you want but we are at the
midpoint of a trajectory that continues
in that direction what if my daughter
who is eight years old right now wants
to be a teacher in the future and what
if she wants to wear a hijab like I did
there are elements of public
consultation and they're elements of
public participation and they're
elements of democratic debate but there
are ultimately elements of coercion and
even authoritarianism involved in that
progress towards a secular state a
secular society okay um on a factual
level circumcision isn't just symbolic
male circumcision is removing about 60
percent of the nerve endings in a human
penis okay
it's not just a matter of opinion it's
not merely symbolic the science of
evolution the science of geology the
fact that the earth earth is a sphere
and not flat ultimately it's not up for
debate whether or not we're gonna
legalize slavery once again one of my
patreon supporters said to me something
that's profound
and brilliant in its simplicity she said
tradition all tradition ultimately is a
form of peer pressure that deceased
generations are exercising over the
living our ancestors from the past bully
us into imitating their stupidity
through tradition we can pretend all we
want that the role of the government is
to preserve tradition it isn't it's
to destroy tradition is to replace it
with something better step by step